# Issues for Week 1 

## Before course
### Pre-course user manuals
* **Michael:** Make a welcome pack, in London programme repo to share with future cohorts  
**Issue:** Inclusion of preferred pronouns BEFORE course, pre-course user manuals (brief with disabilities or pronouns)

### Installation list
* **Jessie:** Add a comparison of VScode and Atom (explain that both work) to the pre-course installation list with plugins for each 
* **Dom:** more plugins that will be useful
* **Michael:** check in with people
* **Nathalie:** plugins and explanation of what they do? 
* **Martin:** VScode list?   
* **Michael:** Should we remove eslint that early?
* **Dom:** Can we add how to install plugins and settings/commands?
* **Jessie:** 'Live server' and 'open in browser' are useful
* **Michael:** Art has another Linux link to add to the installation list

**Issue:** capture the improvements listed above in the installation list. 

## Day 1
### Name game
* **Michael:** More mentors in there
* **Eve:** point out who is a mentor and how is a student?
* **Kate:** make sure mentors are on time if they are coming in, mentors in the corner should mix in with the group
* **Dom:** scatter mentors around the room 
* **Lucy:** tried to facilitate scattering, any suggestions for knowing who?
* **Eve:** Say if you are a student or a mentor
* **Armand:** Stickers!!
* **Eve:** sash, badge...
* **Harry:** mentor hat...
* **Kate:** spinny hats...
* **Dom:** readme for each cohort and mentors
* **Lucy:** this exists!
* **Michael:** add to treasure hunt exercise

**Issue:** know who is a mentor and who is a student during the game. Hard to facilitate people being here on time so no pressure to do it

### Code of conduct and house rules
* **Michael:** keys for the cohort for meetups. Potential everyone donating money for keys?
* **Nathalie:** Introduce GitHub and how to raise issues early on for the running of the organisation. After first code review talk about notes for own team and joining in discussions about running of the organisation    

**Issue:** Improve welcome talk by making sure to cover key house rules like **how to get a key** (for cohort and after meetups), **cleaning rota**, **closing the door to the classroom** and **locking up after meetups** also introduce **Gitter channels** and **pair programming**

### Pair programming 
* **Joe:** given 4 ways, work on codewars challenges using the different approaches. Maybe mentors can keep on asking students what worked. 
* **Lucy:** mentors should have prompted to swap pairs and aking to pair programme 
* **Dom:** we were told and we got it eventually...
* **Armand:** Introduced to 20/20/20 at the same time 
* **Jessie:** Pair programming intro could be better, no context, not sure why it's useful or when to use different approaches. Reflect at the end, ask questions about the techniques.
* **Eve:** there was a presentation...
* **Michael:** more reflection on pair programming. Later you think:  "it's not working"
* **Joe:** user manuals, can we add how people would like to pair their favourite style...keep updating the 

**Issue** make the pair programming info and workshop clearer and ask students to reflect on using them  

### Git hub scavenger hunt 
* **Dom:** Don't put links to workshops in Gitter, to keep it clean for? 
* **Nathalie:** I missed learning things that were actually in there! 
* **Dom:** how useful is it, engagement, key things, perhaps stretch goal with more niche things?
* **Jessie:** have raised issue about the ability to add comments 
* **Emma:** keep
* **Michael:** maybe we can focus on how
* **Lucy:** We do it so that people get Github and the folder structure. Some things _will_ not stick.
* **Lucy:** it can be up to the ones who do week1 to make this better
* **Nathalie:** can we put together a doc as part of the exercise 
* **Jessie:** as solutions branch in the repo or a bunch of useful links
* **Armand:** Art's spreadsheet is useful
* **Michael:** Art has found some good things and they should be what the students look for
* **Eve:** make the point of the workshop clearer
* **Michael:** ask to bookmark instead of starring some repos
* **Lucy:** put it on Github for the cohort
* **Emma:** Link in the description of the Gitter channel

**Issue** the workshop lacked meaning although there was a need to have some key cohort links collected in one place, provide these in a solutions branch or let cohort assemble the list themselves

## Day 2
### Accessibility challege 
* no comments

### Git workshop 
* **Harry:** Use Kate's git poster!
* **Joe:** Is there an issue to add the git poster to the workshop?
* **Dom:** resources?
* **Lucy:** it's in the repo. if you cannot find any feel free to create them
* **Harry:** can we add commands to a list?
* **Emma:** there is a link to a table at the bottom of the workshop  
* **Michael:** can we clarify what should be done in pairs and what steps are individual (CAPTURED IN GITHUB ISSUES)
* **Dom:** can we change the step that is about fixing a spelling mistake? some fixed the mistake before committing only to find out that the next step was go to back and fix the spelling error (CAPTURED IN GITHUB ISSUES)
* **Monika:** let people know what vim is and how to get out of it _cheers_
* **Dom:** release the Jessie/Joe/team resource collector website to the next cohort!
* **Lucy:** every cohort creates this as a project 
* **Jessie:** cover how to unmerge things  

**Issue:** Improve workshop by making the instructions clearer and introducing Kate's git command flow poster 

### Intro to research
* **Joe:** reading the research. We did have 30 min to spare, make the research time shorter
* **Michael:** let students know that you don't even need to understand everything that you have researched 
* **Emma:** Is it mentioned where to stick the research?
* **Dom:** BEM would have been nicer to have a workshop 
* **Nathalie:** research something that can become a demo outcome (Eves' idea)
* **Emma:** People will feel stupid if cannot make a demo
* **Harry:** Add resources to the page so we don't research bollox
* **Art:** what will happen to the research we have? can we add in some links that we have found 
* **Michael:** Don't force people to demo. Low threshold high ceiling, something we can build with infinite possibilities. Part of the exercise is to be able to distinguish good from bad info. 
* **Armand:** Make sure that students understand what is extra and what is minimal effort
* **Emma:** I _did_ learn how to google
* **Dom:** A midway could be to add in the note 'FYI it's NOT this' 
* **Lucy:** database migration need to fix the text to ensure that people don't look at the wrong thing

**Issue:** Improve workshop to make research more meaningful and possibly challenge students to demo or build guides

## Day 5
### Presentation guidance 
* **Lucy:** add resources to the reseach guidance

### Presentations
* **Dom:** maybe we have not challenged the people that are insecure to talk. I have made a group stopwatch timer to track everyone's time. Can be used as a tool to get a more even distribution of talking time
* **Emma:** Sounds good but often some people don't have much to say.
* **Dom:** should be used or all presentations not only research. Not used to penalize people 
* **Michael:** used for reflection, but cannot be a tool to pressure people to talk
* **Lucy:** not comfortable to implement on all, but give the option for groups to do it themselves
* **Art:** tips/resources for those less comfortable to talk
* **Martin:** has anyone learned to talk - share your tips
* **Eve:** I have, now I don't give a shit about it 
* **Dom:** this is the best place to learn and get comfortable so let's challenge people here
* **Micheal:** make the importance of this soft skill clear, but we cannot force adults to do things
* **Eve:** let people know that this will be happening, but we all have to learn
* **Dom:** agree but if someone has a condition that could affect their ability they should still be included. people saying 'I hate presenting' is something we need to learn
* **Armand:** Agree to an extent. presenting skills is really important in life but maybe it should not be prioritised
* **Emma:** encouragement is not always the best way (could be pressure). split topics help everyone help out 
* **Michael:** the course gives us an opportunity to do things. we need to support those who need help but want to get better
* **Nathalie:** Emma can we use you to give support to others? Whoever has struggled to use the knowledge
* **Art:** everyone has been great
* **Dom:** mini-workshop or talk could be useful?
* **Armand:** outlines could be good and repetition is the best thing for help    
* **Eve:** generally in school we have learned what should be in a talk, but nerves and anxiety is hard to teach how to get over
* **Joe:** add some lines of why presenting is a useful soft skill and that this as a good place to do so. Adding a few thought fo what we have learned if we have become better (reassuring). As mentors, cohorts are going to be different and next cohorts will be different and encourage students to share speaking time.

**Issue** improve ways to encourage everyone in a group to speak without forcing those who are quieter, perhaps use Dom's group timer or work to explain the importance of being able to talk to people about technical topics for job search and future career. 

### User manuals 
* **Michael:** useful to think about myself
* **Dom:** better place to have them? 
* **Armand:** yeah the char limit is annoying. I have a lot to say.
* **Michael:** smart not no be too verbose. Maybe a markdown file so we get to practice.
* **Lucy:** who has not taken to the manuals?
* **Armand:** inorganic, reading about people is not how I get to know people
* **Eve:** many people put the same about the feedback, but it's not true, so maybe rephrase
* **Monika:** should I change and update it and remove things that I learned. Include the journey.

**Issue** improve cards by finding a better place for them, allowing students to fill in their own markdown sheets and document their journey (what they have learned each week). 
